1.1    INTENT OF SPECIFICATIONS.  
The Specifications and accompanying plans are intended to describe the details of technical matters in the Contract, i.e. performance, capacities, constructions of an ocean going diesel engine driven single screw bulk carrier, hereinafter called “the Vessel”.  
If any discrepancy is found between the Specifications and the accompanying plans, the Specifications shall prevail.  
In the event of conflict or inconsistency between the terms of these parts of the Specifications, the hull part shall prevail in respect of hull items, the machinery part in respect of machinery items, and the electric part in respect of electric items.  
Where the word “or” is used in the Specifications to indicate that the use of alternative items will be permitted, it shall be understood to mean “at the Builder's option”.  
Any item which is not expressly called for in the Specifications shall not be furnished in principle, but if it is required by the specified rules and regulations, it shall be furnished by the Builder without any charge to the Owner.  
Any item mentioned twice or more in the Specifications shall be furnished or applied only once.  
In general, the Vessel shall be built in accordance with the Specifications and any modifications and/or changes to the Specifications shall be agreed mutually by the Owner and the Builder, subject to adjustment of price, delivery, guaranteed figures and any other terms in the Contract and in the Specifications and those shall be confirmed by memorandum of discussions, letters, plans and/or available documents by both parties.  
Also the Vessel shall be built in accordance with the Builder's practice with regard to other work than specified by the Specifications.  
Spare parts shall be supplied by the Builder according to the Specifications to meet the requirements of the specified Classification Society, the regulatory bodies and manufacturer's standard.  
Any additional spares required by the Owner shall be supplied by the Builder on the Owner's account.  
Necessary modifications shall be left for further stage because of the detailed investigation for Common Structural Rules. 
