2.3    CERTIFICATE.  

One (1) original and two (2) copies of the following certificates and documentations shall be obtained by the Builder and furnished to the Owner at the time of delivery of the Vessel.
  
When provisional documents are furnished at the time of delivery, the Owner and the Builder shall negotiate how to furnish the formal documents.
  
(1)  Provisional Certificate of Classification issued by the Classification Society.  

(2)  Builder's Certificate issued by the Builder.  

(3)  Certificates for International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, issued by the  Classification Society on behalf of the registered country as follows. 

(a)  Cargo Ship Safety Construction Certificate. 

(b)  Cargo Ship Safety Equipment Certificate. 

(c)  Cargo Ship Safety Radio Certificate.  
     
(4)  International Load Lines Certificate without Timber Freeboard issued by the Classification Society on behalf of the registered country.    

(5)  International Tonnage Certificate issued by the Classification Society on behalf of the registered country.     

(6) Suez Canal Special Tonnage Certificate and Documentation for Panama Canal Special Tonnage issued by the Classification Society on behalf of the registered country.

(7)  International Oil Pollution Prevention Certificate issued by the Classification Society on behalf of the registered country.    

(8)  International Sewage Pollution Prevention Certificate issued by the Classification Society on behalf of the registered country. 

(9)  International Air Pollution Prevention Certificate issued by the Classification Society on behalf of the registered country.

(10)  International energy efficiency certificate issued by the Classification Society on   behalf of the registered country (Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan shall be  prepared by the Owner).  

(11)  International Anti-fouling System Certificate issued by the Classification Society on behalf of the registered country. 

(12)  Ship Sanitation Control Exemption Certificate issued by the Japanese Government.  

(13)  Survey report for crew accommodation to meet the provisions for crew accommodation of Maritime labour convention, 2006 (Maritime labour certificate shall be obtained by the Owner) .

(14)  Register of Cargo Gear for New Zealand, Australia, Canada, India and Pakistan.  

(15)  Register of Ship's Lifting Appliance and Items of Loose Gear ( Deck crane & Provision Crane ) issued by the Classification Society.    

(16)  Cargo Hold Ladder Plan approved by the Gibson Minto & Aiton Pty. Ltd. of Australia.  

(17)  Certificate of Compliance with the IMSBC Code (Listed in the Group A and C (as far as practicable based on the Vessel’s current equipment), and Coal listed in the Group B) issued by the Classification Society on behalf of the registered country (The certificate of compliance is to certify that the Vessel is suitable for the carriage in bulk of listed cargoes in the cargo holds stated in accordance with the provisions of the IMSBC Code. When the listed cargoes are actually transported, the compatibility between cargoes and paint etc. should be confirmed.). 

(18)  Grain Loading Plan approved by the Classification Society (inc. Untrimming End Calculation Sheets). 

(19)  Test Certificate for Anchor, Anchor chain cable and Mooring rope issued by the Classification Society. 

(20)  Ballast Water Management Plan approved by the Classification Society (only for Sequential-Method).  

(21)  Other usual certificates including those for navigation light and magnetic compass issued by the NIPPON HAKUYOHIN KENTEI KYOKAI and magnetic compass adjustment table issued by the Builder.  

(22)  Shipboard Oil Pollution Emergency Plan approved by the Classification Society.  

(23)   International Ballast Water Management Certificate issued by the Classification Society on behalf of the registered country.

(24)  Deadweight Certificate issued by the Builder. 

(25)  Asbestos Free Declaration.  
  Remarks : Certificate of Ship's Nationality and Radiotelephones Station and Exemption Certificate (Fixed fire-extinguishing system for cargo holds) etc. issued by the   registered country to be obtained by the shipyard as a part of Safety Equipment Certificate. 
