11.1  INSULATION .

11.1.1  General.

The external surface of the equipment and tanks which shall treat or contain the fluid 
having temperature above 55℃, except for the jacket cooling fresh water system, lub. oil 
system and boiler feed water line, shall be insulated as described below.  Jacket cooling 
F.W. pipes in the location where people can easily touch shall be insulated.

The insulation materials such as glass wool, rock wool, etc. shall be suitably served 
according to the internal temperature of equipment and tanks concerned.

Where it is necessary to fit removable and replaceable insulation on flanges, valves, 
fittings, etc., glass wool mattress shall be used.  Where glass wool mattress are used, 
they shall be secured with steel wires, steel bands and clips.

A-60 insulation shall be provided for engine room fore side bulkhead.

11.1.2  Application for equipment and tank.

Main engine, main diesel generator engines, incinerator and aux. boiler shall be insulated 
according to Maker’s standard. 
Pumps, coolers, condenser and oil heaters shall not be insulated, however oil heaters shall 
be provided with metal cover for protection.

The external surface of under said tanks which are exposed to the engine room except rear 
wall and bottom of the tanks shall be insulated in accordance with the following table.

Tank 
Insulation.

Covering Material Thickness in 
mm.

Heavy fuel oil settling tank 
Heavy fuel oil service tank 
L/S fuel oil settling tank 
L/S fuel oil service tank 
Waste oil tank.

Glass wool or 
rock wool.

25.

Galvanized 
steel plate 
(abt. 0.2mm) or 
aluminized glass 
cloth.

The tanks attached to machinery or equipment, insulation of which are required, shall be 
insulated in accordance with Maker’s standard. 
Other tanks shall not be insulated.

MGO service tank.

△1
△1.

△1.

11.1.3  Application for piping.

The materials and thickness of insulation for piping except for exhaust gas system, jacket 
cooling fresh water system and lub. oil system shall be in accordance with the following 
table.

Temperature range 
of internal fluid.

Nominal pipe diameter in mm 
Material Up to 20 25 to 150 200 & above.

Thickness of insulation in mm 
Up to 100℃ 6 20 20 Glass wool,.

glass mat or  
glass wool mattress.

101℃ to 183℃ 6 20 20 
184℃ and above 6 40 40.

The exposed parts of the following pipes which is a danger to the crew shall be insulated 
with glass cloth irrespective of pipe diameter and internal temperature.

 ・Boiler blow pipe 
 ・Drain pipe after drain valves, drain traps and safety valves of aux. boiler.

The external surface of insulation material shall be covered with glass cloth or aluminum 
foil for protection.

The exhaust gas pipes after turbocharger of main engine, main generator diesel engines, 
incinerator and uptake of aux. boiler shall be insulated up to two (2) meters height from 
the funnel bottom in accordance with the following table and covered with galvanized 
steel plate.

Name Material 
Nominal pipe.

diameter in mm 
Thickness of.

insulation in mm
Main engine 
Diesel gene. engine 
Aux. Boiler 
Incinerator.

Rock wool All sizes 50.

In all cases where pipe insulation abut on flanges and fittings the end of insulation shall 
be suitably terminated to permit free removable of bolts and to allow for movement of 
pipes at hangers.