5.5    LIGHT WEIGHT MEASUREMENT AND INCLINING TEST. 
When the Vessel is substantially completed except for minor items of work, the light weight measurement and inclining test of the Vessel shall be carried out by the Builder.  
 5.5.1    Light weight measurement.  
The light weight measurement shall be carried out by reading the draught of the Vessel and measuring specific gravity of sea water and by investigation of weights to be added or to be deducted, in the presence of the Owner’s supervisor or the person who is authorized by the Owner.  
The draught of the Vessel shall be measured at the draught marks on both sides of stem, stern and midship.  
Displacement  of  the  Vessel  at  this  light  weight  measurement  shall  be  determined  by reading  the  draught-displacement  table  on  the  corresponding  draught  obtained  from  the measured draught.  
The correction for trim, deflection of the Vessel and specific gravity of sea water at the measurement shall also be made on the calculation.  
If any superfluous weight is onboard the Vessel or any item belonging to the light weight is not onboard the Vessel at the time of the light weight measurement, such weight shall be adjusted by the calculation.  
The  calculation  of  the  light  weight  and  deadweight  shall  be  made  by  the  Builder  and verified by the Owner's supervisor in order to determine  “Light weight”  and “Deadweight”.  
 5.5.2    Inclining test.  
The  inclining  test  shall  be  carried  out  in  the  presence  of  the  Owner’s  supervisor  or  the person who is authorized by the Owner and the Classification Society’s surveyor, and then the position of the center of gravity of the Vessel in light condition shall be determined by the Builder’s calculation based on the test results.  
The inclining test shall be conducted by shifting solid weight onboard and by measuring the Vessel’s heel using  “U-tube” water level.  
The inclining test shall be carried out at pier of the Builder’s yard.  
