1.2    OUTLINE OF THE VESSEL.  
The  Vessel  shall  be  of  a  single  screw  diesel  engine  driven  ocean  going  bulk  carrier suitable  for  carrying  grain,  coal,  hot  steel  coil,  long  size  steel,  cement  and  ore (Density=3.0t/m3).  
The Vessel shall have a raked stem with protruded bulbous bow and transom stern with mariner type stern frame having a hanging rudder.  
Energy saving device shall be installed.  
The Vessel shall have one (1) continuous upper deck with forecastle, engine room and accommodation deck house including navigation space shall be located aft as shown on the General Arrangement.  
The Vessel shall be divided by seven (7) watertight transverse bulkheads into the following compartments as shown on the General Arrangement.  
Fore peak tank ( water ballast ).
No.1 through No.5 cargo hold. 
Engine room. 
Aft peak tank ( water ballast ). 
Double bottom shall be extended from collision bulkhead to aft peak tank bulkhead.  
Fuel oil tanks, diesel oil tanks, water ballast tanks, top side tanks ( water ballast ), fresh water tank and drinking water tank shall be arranged as shown on the General Arrangement.  
Lubricating oil sump tank etc. shall be arranged in double bottom under the engine room.  
Lubricating oil sump tank shall be of triple bottom construction.  
No.3 cargo hold shall be utilized as water ballast tank.  
The cargo hold compartment shall be constructed with single hull with top side tanks and double bottom tanks with side hopper.  
The Vessel shall have four (4) deck cranes for cargo gear on upper deck at center line.  
The folding type cargo hatch covers shall be provided for each cargo hatch on upper deck.
The Vessel shall be able to load heavy cargoes into No.1, 3 and 5 cargo holds under the alternated condition and load/unload at different two (2) ports under the condition of the homogeneous cargo.  
The  Vessel  including  its  material,  workmanship  and  apparatus  (  machinery,  equipment, piping,  etc.  )  shall  be  complied  with  the  requirements  of  the  specified  Classification Society, rules and regulations concerned and also shall be constructed in accordance with the Specifications and the Builder's/subcontractors' practices.   
