6.4  SCREW PUMP .

Screw pumps shall develop rated capacity and discharge pressure when operating with the 
under-said suction conditions.

Name 
Suction 
vacuum 
( MPa ).

Viscosity 
(cSt).

Shaft seal.

Fuel oil booster pump －0.05 1.5  -  260 Mechanical seal.

M/E fuel oil circulating pump ＋0.4 1.5  -  260 Mechanical seal.

D/G fuel oil circulating pump ＋0.4 1.5  -  260 Mechanical seal.

D/G diesel oil booster pump －0.05 1.5  -  260 Mechanical seal.

The materials of main parts of the screw pumps shall be as follows :.

 Casing Cast iron 
 Casing cover Cast iron 
 Power rotor Carbon steel 
 Idle rotor Ductile steel.

The fittings and accessories shall be as follows :.

 1 － set of coupling bolt, nut and rubber ring or coupling bush 
 1 － coupling cover for horizontal type pump 
 1 － relief valve  
 1 － gauge board fitted with suction and discharge pressure gauges 
 Each 1 － root cock or valve for pressure gauge 
 1 － air vent plug 
 1 － common bed for horizontal type pump.

6.5  RECIPROCATING PUMP.

Reciprocating type bilge pump shall be provided with conventional packing type gland 
seals and develop rated capacity and discharge pressure when operating with suction 
vacuum of －0.05MPa and viscosity of 1～1000 cSt.

The materials of main parts of reciprocating pump shall be as follows:.

 Cylinder cover Cast iron 
 Cylinder liner Brass casting 
 Piston Brass 
 Valve Rubber 
 Piston rod Stainless steel.

The fittings and accessories shall be as follows:.

 1 － safety valve 
 1 － air vent plug 
 1 － drain plug 
 2 － V belt 
 Each 1 － V pulley 
 1 － safety cover 
 1 － gauge board fitted with suction and discharge pressure gauges 
 2 － gauge cock.

6.6  MONROS PUMP.

Monros pump shall be one kind of displacement type screw pump and provided with 
conventional packing type gland seals. 
Monros type sludge pump shall develop rated capacity and discharge pressure when 
operating with suction vacuum of －0.05MPa and viscosity of 1～1000 cSt.

The materials of main parts of monros pump shall be as follows:.

 Stator Rubber 
 Shaft, rotor and con-rod Stainless steel 
 Pump stand Cast iron.

The fittings and accessories shall be as follows:.

 1 － safety valve 
 2 － V belt 
 Each 1 － V pulley 
 1 － safety cover 
 1 － gauge board fitted with suction and discharge pressure gauges 
 1 － common bed.

6.7  OTHER PUMP.

The construction, materials and design of pumps attached to the main engine, main diesel 
generator engines, aux. boiler, oil purifiers, air compressors, waste oil incinerator, fresh 
water generator and etc. shall be in accordance with Maker’s standard.