12.10  VENTILATION FOR ENGINE ROOM .

Mechanical supply ventilating system shall be provided for the engine room.  The fresh 
air for each ventilating fan shall be taken from separate ventilating air inlets and shall be 
distributed to the engine room through ducts.

Total supply capacity of ventilating fans shall be determined based on the amount of air 
consumed by the main engine running at maximum output, taking the air consumption of 
diesel generator engine.

As to detail of ventilating fan, refer to Subsection 7.5 ENGINE ROOM VENTILATING 
FAN.

 M12 - 8e.

12.11  FIRE FIGHTING SYSTEM IN ENGINE ROOM.

The ship shall be provided with fire fighting system in accordance with the rule 
requirement.

There shall be provided two (2) fire pumps ( Bilge & ballast pump and Fire & G.S. 
pump ), fire valve and hose the suitable place in engine room.

Portable foam fire extinguisher and removal foam fire extinguisher etc. shall be provided 
in accordance with the rule requirement. 
Details of fire fighting system, refer to PART II HULL PART.

Fixed water-based local fire fighting system shall be provided in accordance with the rule 
requirement.

The emergency stop switch shall be provided outside of engine room.  Details of the  
emergency stop switch, refer to PART IV ELECTRIC PART.

The emergency shut off valve device shall be provided outside engine room for fuel oil 
and lub. oil tanks which air described on Subsection 12.5 TANK IN ENGINE ROOM.

12.12  INCINERATOR.

There shall be installed one (1) set of waste oil incinerator for dispose of sludge and waste 
oil. 
The construction, materials and accessories shall be in accordance with Maker’s standard.

12.13  NAME PLATE AND CAUTION PLATE.

Name plate for machinery shall be in English and in SI unit.

Caution plate for machinery shall be in English and Japanese. 
In principle, name plate written in English shall be fitted to each valve which nominal 
diameter 15A and above.

Tanks in engine room shall be fitted with name plate.

 M13 - 1