5.2  MAIN DIESEL GENERATOR ENGINE .

5.2.1  General.

The main diesel generator engine shall be vertical single acting, 4-cycle direct injection, 
air cooled turbocharged diesel engine with air cooler.

5.2.2  Construction and material.

(1) Crankshaft.

The mono-block crankshaft shall be made of forged steel.  The crankpins and 
journals shall be induction hardened to increase the antiwear character.

(2) Main bearing and oil sump tank.

The oil sump tank integrated in the common bed shall be made of carbon steel and 
forms crankcase bolted together with cylinder block.  Main bearing shall be two (2) 
layers of steel back metal, aluminum of surface layer, and each bearing cap shall be 
bolted with the cylinder block firmly by means of tension bolts.

(3) Cylinder block.

The cylinder block shall be made of cast iron, and has crankcase doors on both sides.  
A water jacket shall be formed between cylinder and cylinder liner.

(4) Cylinder head.

The cylinder head shall be made of cast iron.  It shall be made to have sufficient 
rigidity and to form effective cooling jackets.  At its center shall be the fuel injection 
nozzle, around which two pieces of intake and exhaust valves and indicator cock shall 
be provided.

(5) Cylinder liner.

The precisely honed cylinder liner shall be made of cast iron.

(6) Piston and piston ring.

The piston shall be made of special cast iron.  The top and 2nd ring grooves shall be 
hardened with laser alloying process.  Lubricating oil for cooling shall be fed into 
cooling gallery through center hole of connecting rod and piston pin. 
The piston shall have two (2) compression rings and one (1) oil scraper ring.

(7) Piston pin.

Case hardened and precisely honed piston pin shall be made of special steel. 
The pin shall be full-floated type to secure good lubrication and prevent partial wear.

(8) Connecting rod.

The connecting rod shall be of forged steel.  They shall be obliquely split at big end 
with serrations between the rod and the cap.  Piston pin bush shall be of thin shell 
lined with leaded-bronze bearing, and crankpin bearing shell shall be of thin steel shell 
type with aluminum alloy.

(9) Fuel injection pump.

Fuel injection pump shall be of Bosch type and independently fit to each cylinder.  
The pump shall regulate the amount of fuel injection with its plunger having an 
oblique notch at its lower part.  Fuel valve tip part shall be non cooled type.  For 
plunger and barrel of fuel injection pump and for nozzle and nozzle body of fuel 
injection valve, strictly selected special steel shall be utilized and processed with 
precision lapping and then sufficiently lapped together.

(10) Intake and exhaust valve.

Four valve system, consisting of each twin exhaust and intake valves shall be made of 
heat resisting steel.  Valve seat shall be stellite fuse plated, and inserted in the 
cylinder head.  Valve rotator shall be for both intake and exhaust valves.

(11) Governor.

The governor shall be hydraulic type governor.

5.2.3  Piping.

(1) Cooling water system.

Cooling fresh water pump shall be a centrifugal pump driven by crankshaft gear 
opposite of the flywheel side.  Cooling water from cooling water distributing pipe 
shall pass through cylinder jacket and cylinder head of each cylinder.

Lub. oil cooler and air cooler shall be cooled by fresh water circulated by engine 
driven water pump.

(2) Lub. oil system.

Lub. oil pump shall be gear pump mounted on cylinder gear box opposite of the 
flywheel side.  It shall be driven by crankshaft gear.  Lub. oil shall pass through oil 
cooler and filter, then lubricate main bearing, crank pin metals, piston pin metals and 
piston, and return to oil sump tank.

A branched lub. oil shall lubricate camshaft bearing, fuel injection pump tappets, 
tappet roller of suction and exhaust valves, rocker arm, bearings of governor, 
turbocharger and then drop onto oil sump tank.

(3) Staring air system.

Starting of this engine shall be carried out by compressed air and air motor with ring 
gear to give good starting.

5.2.4  Fitting and accessory.

The following accessories shall be supplied with the engine.

 1 － turbocharger 
 1 － air cooler 
 1 － flywheel 
 1 － maneuvering gear 
 1 － governor 
 1 － exhaust gas manifold 
 1 － electric tachometer 
 1 － set of pressure gauge 
 1 － set of thermometer 
 1 － lub. oil filter 
 1 － lub. oil pump ( gear ) 
 1 － lub. oil cooler 
 1 － fuel oil final filter 
 1 － high temp. fresh water pump ( Centrifugal ) 
 1 － low temp. fresh water pump ( Centrifugal ) 
 1 － high temp. F.W. temperature control valve 
 1 － L.O. temperature control valve 
 1 － L.O. priming pump 
 1 － turning bar 
 1 － common bed 
 1 － set of fuel oil shut-off device for emergency trip