5.2  MAIN DIESEL GENERATOR ENGINE .

5.2.1  General.

The main diesel generator engine shall be vertical single acting, 4-cycle direct injection, 
air cooled turbocharged diesel engine with air cooler.

5.2.2  Construction and material.

(1) Crankshaft.

The crankshaft shall be made of high grade forged steel one piece type.

(2) Main bearing shell.

The main bearing shell shall be made of aluminum alloy metal lined, split in two (2) 
pieces type mild steel.  It shall be completed thin-shell type, and provided with 
complete interchangeability.

(3) Engine frame.

Engine frame shall be made of special cast iron, of under sling bearing structure, which 
is sufficiently rigid for high explosion pressure.

The engine frame shall have big inspection holes on the both side in order to be taken 
out the main and crank pin bearing shells, and other main moving parts.

The intake air passage shall be provided at the upper part of engine frame on the 
exhaust manifold side providing a double wall structure, thus substantially enclosing 
sound insulation. 
Also passages of cooling water inlet/outlet and Lub. oil inlet shall be built into this 
engine frame to minimize external piping.

The main bearing cap shall be secured rigidly to the engine frame by hydraulically 
tightening two mounting bolts and two side bolts.

(4) Cylinder head.

The cylinder head shall be made thick with special cast iron.  It has a fuel injection 
nozzle on its center, and each 2 pieces of intake and exhaust valves and rocker arms are 
arranged around the fuel injection nozzle.

(5) Cylinder liner.

The cylinder liner shall be made of high grade cast iron against abnormal wear, and its 
inside is precisely hone-finished. 
The cylinder liner cooled by freshwater shall be made thick with ample rigidly so that 
it is sufficiently endurable even under high combustion pressure and the thermal stress.

(6) Piston, piston pin and piston ring.

The piston shall be made of ductile cast iron as mono-block type and cooled by 
crankcase lubricating oil through the connecting rod and piston pin inside.

1st and 2nd piston ring grooves of piston shall be surface-hardened to have resistance 
against wear down.

The piston pin shall be made of carbonizing-hardening chromium-molybdenum steel. 
A full floating method shall be adopted in fitting the piston pin.

The three piston rings and one oil ring shall be made of cast iron, and piston rings and 
oil rings shall be chromium plated.

(7) Connecting rod and crank pin bearing shell.

The connecting rod shall be made of forged steel, and it is constructed so that the 
forging is divided into 3 parts and the large end part is horizontally divided. 
The piston pin bush shall be of cylindrical steel lined with lead bronze.  The crank pin 
bearing shell shall be of aluminum alloy metal lined completed thin shell type.

(8) Fuel injection pump and fuel nozzle holder.

Both the pump with a tappet and the nozzle of Bosch type shall be attached to each 
cylinder.

The circulation type fuel injection pump shall be adopted.

(9) Intake and exhaust valve.

Both intake and exhaust valves shall mushroom type of heat resistance steel, and 
provided with the valve rotators and removable seat rings respectively.

The exhaust valve shall be made of heat resistance steel. 
The seat of exhaust valve shall be plated with stellite. 
The exhaust valve seat shall be cooled by fresh water and the treatment of anti-
corrosion shall be applied for gas passage.

5.2.3  Piping.

(1)  Cooling system.

Cooler line (LT-FW) 
The engine driven LT-FW pump shall run cooling water from the external freshwater 
cooler into the secondary L.O. cooler and air cooler. 
Under low load condition, charge air inverse warming would be carried out 
automatically by means of cutting off cooling water from the secondary air cooler.

Cylinder jacket line (HT-FW) 
The engine driven HT-FW pump shall be circulated cooling water, which is controlled 
by the attached thermostat, in the primary air cooler, cylinder jacket and cylinder heads.

(2)  Lub. oil system.

A gear pump shall be driven by the auxiliary machinery driving gear of engine. 
Lub. oil sucked up from the oil sump shall be sent out into cooler and oil filter, and 
lubricates main bearings, crank pin metals, piston pin metal, camshaft bearings, swing 
arm, valve rocker arm, timing gear train and turbocharger, while some oil cools pistons 
and drops back to the oil sump. 
For the priming of the lubrication system during engine is in rest, electric motor driven 
pre-priming pump of continuous priming system shall be provided. 
To safeguard the oil cooler and oil piping against excessive oil pressure, a relief valve 
shall be attached.

5.2.4  Fitting and accessory.

The following accessories shall be supplied with the engine.

 1 － turbocharger  
 1 － air cooler  
 1 － flywheel 
 1 － maneuvering gear 
 1 － governor 
 1 － exhaust gas manifold 
 1 － mechanical tachometer  
 1 － set of pressure gauge (enclosing glycerin) 
 1 － set of thermometer 
 1 － lub. oil filter 
 1 － lub. oil by-pass filter (centrifugal type) 
 1 － lub. oil pump ( gear ) 
 1 － lub. oil cooler 
 2 － cooling fresh water pump ( centrifugal ) 
 1 － turning bar 
 1 － common bed 
 1 － set of fuel oil shut-off device for emergency trip