10.1  GENERAL .

Consideration shall be given in design so that the piping shall be led as directly as 
practicable with a minimum of bends.

Care shall be taken to avoid as far as possible pockets in pipe lines.  Where pockets do 
occur, they shall be fitted with bosses having valves or screwed plugs or other means for 
draining if necessary.  The drain plugs shall not be fitted in way of cofferdams or voids.  
The lines which necessitate draining frequently shall be fitted with valves or traps, or both.

The radius of bends in steel pipe shall be about two times the nominal diameter except for 
bend elbow.  But in case it is difficult to make good piping arrangement with two times, 
bend elbow may be used.  Welding fittings may be employed in place of pipe bends.

In case that the bend elbows are used, the radius of bends shall be one or one and half 
times of nominal diameter.

The system shall be designed to allow for all stresses due to thermal expansions and 
deflections of ship’s structure. 
Except where otherwise noted, expansion shall be compensated by using bends. 
Expansion joints in exhaust gas pipes shall be of bellows type.

The pipes shall be supported suitably against excessive vibration.

The oil piping shall be kept as far as away from hot surface as practicable.  The pipe 
shall, as far as possible, not be arranged directly above or in front of or behind the switch 
board.  If unavoidable, suitable protection shall be provided.

Where piping passes through water or oil tight bulkheads and decks, the connection shall 
be made tight by means of three spool flanges or direct welded pipes.  
Connections through insulated bulkheads shall be of sufficient length to permit access to 
flanged connection without disturbing the insulation.

The directly welded pipes shall be employed for piping penetrated through tank walls 
constructed with hull, such as sounding pipes, pump suction pipes and vent pipes.

Where galvanized piping is specified, the galvanizing shall be done after the pipe is 
fabricated and flanges are attached thereon in shop, except for screwed ends which may be 
attached after galvanizing.

 M10 - 2.

Where it is impracticable or welding has destroyed galvanization the surface shall be 
touched up with coat of zinc rich paint.

Unions joints, screw joints or bite joints may be used for connecting the small pipes, 
valves and cocks.

Pipes shall be hydrostatically tested in accordance with the requirement of the 
Classification Society.

After fabrication in shop for subsequent assembly, the lubricating oil pipes of main engine 
forced circulation system shall be pickled before installation.  After fitting out onboard, 
they shall be cleaned by flushing with the lubricating oil which is prepared as system oil.

Packing used for all pipe lines, in general, shall be of multipurpose type or reinforced 
rubber sheet type.

The specification of pipes and valves which are supplied by maker shall be in accordance 
with Maker’s standard.