SECTION 3    EQUIPMENT AND OUTFIT

3.1    CARGO HATCH AND SMALL HATCH

3.1.1    Cargo hatch cover

Steel weathertight folding type hatch covers shall be provided for each cargo hatch on upper deck. 

Each hatch cover shall be divided into four (4) panels and each two (2) panels of four (4) panels shall be folded forward and backward. 

The hatch cover shall be constructed as double skin type. 

Strength of hatch covers shall be as required by the Classification Society. 

The hatch cover shall be fastened to hatch coaming with quick acting cleat by manual operation. 

Suitable sponge gasket and compression bar shall be equipped for weathertight. 

Material of compression bar shall be of SUS 304. 

Number and size of hatch opening shall be as follows. 

Hatch number 

1 

2  〜  5 

Opening size 

Length ( m )  ×  Breadth ( m ) 

18.40    ×    18.72 23.20    ×    18.72 

One (1) ullage hole shall be provided to No.3 cargo hatch. 

Plug  for  sampling  shall  be  provided  to  each  hatch  coaming  for  IMSBC  code  for  the carriage of coal. 

Vacuum relief valve shall be provided to No.3 cargo hatch. 

Cement feeder hole (700mm diameter, 2-each cargo hold) shall be provided each hatch cover. 

IMABARI SHIPBUILDING CO., LTD

H3 - 2 

3.1.2    Cargo hatch cover operation system

The cargo hatch cover shall be operated by hydraulic operation system,   refer to Fig. 3 - 1 DIAGRAM OF ELECTRO-HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEM. 

Simultaneous operation of any two (2) hatch cover sections, consist of two (2) hatch cover panels  each,  shall  be  considered  and  opening  or  closing  time  is  about  six  (6)  min.  except cleating time. (refer to below) 

Hydraulic operating system for cargo hatch cover shall consist of following items. 

( a )  Hydraulic pump used both as cargo hatch operation and deck machinery 

operation, as for system, refer to Fig. 3 - 1 DIAGRAM OF ELECTRO-HYDRAULIC POWER SYSTEM

 

( b )   Four (4) main cylinder for opening and closing for each cargo hatch cover 

( c )   One (1) operating controller fitted on hatch side or hatch end for each cargo 

hatch cover 

As for piping application, refer to Table 8 - 2 PIPING APPLICATION SCHEDULE. 

Materials of above mentioned machineries shall be to the manufacturer’s standard. 

IMABARI SHIPBUILDING CO., LTD

I

MA
BA
R

I 
SH
IP
BU
IL
DN
GC
O

I

 

.,

NO.5H.C.  

NO.4H.C.  

NO.3H.C.  

NO.2H.C.  

NO.1 

HATCH COVER

OPEN-SHUTCYLINDER

SIMILAR

TO

NO.1 H.C.

SIMILAR

TO

NO.1 H.C.

SIMILAR

TO

NO.1 H.C.

SIMILAR

TO

NO.1 H.C.

LT
D

ELE. HYD. DECKMACH. MAIN LINE

H3

 -
 3

3.1.3    Small hatch and cover

Small hatch and cover shall be fitted as follows : 

Item 

Location 

Rope hatch 

On upper deck 

On f’cle deck   forward 

Size (㎜)  ×  No.  
      *1 1000×1000 -1   Hatch size        *3800 diameter - 1 Deck open 720 diameter for cargo hold  On upper deck  600×600 Access hatch - 2/1 hold Engine parts   about 1000×1000 -1 handling hatch about 1100×1100-1 

                  *2 On Bolted cover Engine casing top On upper deck  about 

Bolted cover for engine parts 

1900×1400 -1 

H3 - 4 

Type 

Securing device 

Steel weathertight hinge-up type 

Butterfly nut and bolt (Brass) 

Steel weathertight bolted cover 

Bolt (SUS) and nut (Brass) 

Coaming height shall be designed as per rule requirement. 

      *1 --- With counter weight, little hatch for mike handling shall be fitted       *2 --- With counter weight       *3 --- With eye piece and chain for anti-pirates 

IMABARI SHIPBUILDING CO., LTD

H3 - 5 

3.2    MAST

One (1) foremast and one (1) radar mast shall be provided as shown on the General Arrangement. 

Foremast of steel pipe shall be provided with stays and fitted with necessary fittings such as mast head light, air horn, steering light, etc. 

Radar mast of steel pipe shall be provided with stays and fitted with necessary fittings such as radar scanner, mast head light, antenna, air horn, inmarsat-C, etc. 

Inmarsat-FB post shall be provided on compass deck. 

Steel wire rope without over-coating shall be used for mast stay, and turnbuckle shall be fitted. 

As for antenna, refer toⅣ- ELECTRIC PART. 

IMABARI SHIPBUILDING CO., LTD

H3 - 6 

3.3    ANCHORING AND MOORING EQUIPMENT

3.3.1    Anchor and anchor chain

Anchor and anchor chain shall be provided in compliance with the requirements of the Classification Society. 

Bower anchor 

Anchor chain cable 

Cast steel, AC-14 type anchor 7,425 ㎏ ×  2 sets High strength steel ( grade 3 ) flush   butt welded stud link chain cable   78 ㎜ diameter  ×  660 m total length 

Spare anchor shall not be supplied. 

Anchor chain cable shall consist of 55 m length×10 and 27.5 m length×4, and each length shall be jointed with kenter shackle. 

Swivel piece shall be fitted at extreme outboard of end of chain cable and shall be connected to anchor shackle. 

The specified length of anchor chain cable shall include shackles, swivel pieces, enlarged links, etc. 

Inboard end of chain cable shall be fastened to equipments of quick release. 

Marking of chain length shall be done every 27.5 m by white painting. 

The following accessories and spares shall be supplied. 

  
  
  
  
  
 

2 - Kenter shackle ( spare ) 5 - Taper pin for kenter shackle ( spare ) 1 - Anchor shackle ( spare ) 2 - Taper pin for anchor shackle ( spare ) 1 - Shackle punch 2 - Pin punch 6 - Chain hook 1 - Pin hammer 1 - Shackle hammer 1 - Tool box 1 - Disengaging tool for kenter shackle 

IMABARI SHIPBUILDING CO., LTD

H3 - 7 

3.3.2    Mooring rope

The following mooring ropes shall be supplied. 

Mooring rope 

Rule requirement synthetic fiber rope   (more than B.L. 554kN) 6 - 200m 

Tow line shall not be supplied by shipyard. 

3.3.3    Anchoring fitting

Anchoring fittings shall be fitted as follows : 

Item 

No. 

Location 

Hawse pipe 

2 

From f’cle deck to side shell 

Chain pipe 

2  Chain locker top 

Chain stopper Anchor stopper 

2  On f’cle deck 

2  On chain stopper 

Type and material Welded steel plate/pipe with cast steel shell piece, and with doubling plate on deck, with anchor convexity on side shell Welded steel plate/pipe with cast steel bellmouth on f’cle deck and with round bar fitted around   under steel bellmouth Steel body and steel seat welded on deck Eye plate and steel wire   rope with turnbuckle 

 

Cover plate and handrail shall be provided for hawse pipe on f’cle deck. 

IMABARI SHIPBUILDING CO., LTD

H3 - 8 

3.3.4    Mooring fitting

Mooring fittings shall be fitted as shown on the General Arrangement. 

            Item Name 

Nominal size (  ㎜  ) 

F’cle deck 

Bollard Cross bitts 

Roller fairleader 

Chock for Panama canal 

400 500 150 2-roller 3-roller 5-roller S.W.L. 90ton S.W.L. 64ton 

350 

Closed chock 

500 

Deck end roller 

Deck stand   roller 

- 

350 

4 2 - 4 2 - 2 3 

- 

2 

2 

Number Upper deck (Mid) 

2 2 2* - - - 2 - 

2 

- 

- 

Upper deck (Aft) 

8 4 - 4 2 - 4 3 

- 

- 

2 

Type and material 

Welded steel plate 

Roller :  Cast iron or 

welded steel plate 

:  Welded steel 

Seat 

Seat 

:  Welded steel 

Body  :  Cast steel Seat 

:  Welded steel 

plate 

plate 

plate 

Body  :  Cast steel Roller :  Cast iron :  Steel plate Seat 

2 - roller type 

Roller : Cast iron or 

welded steel plate Seat    : Welded steel plate 

Jumping stopper for hawser shall be provided to aft end mooring line. 

One (1) eye plate shall be fitted to each bollard. 

* --- Near Fr.100 (for bunker barge) 

IMABARI SHIPBUILDING CO., LTD

H3 - 9 

3.4    LIFE SAVING EQUIPMENT

3.4.1    General

Lifeboats and liferafts shall be arranged as shown on the General Arrangement. 

Life saving equipments shall be provided as follows in compliance with the requirements of the regulatory bodies : 

Item Lifeboat Rescue boat   Boat davit and   Boat winch 

Liferaft 

Lifebuoy 

Life jacket Lifeline throwing gun Immersion suit Emergency escape breathing device 

Material 

Fiberglass Fiberglass 

No. 1 1 1 set  Manufacturer’s 

standard 

Remarks 

25 persons, 6 kt 6 persons, 6 kt 

Free fall type 

1 1 1 

Rubber coated   waterproof nylon cloth 

25 persons inflatable for drop launching 25 persons inflatable for davit launching 6 persons inflatable type 

2 4 2 4 35 1 set  Manufacturer’s standard Manufacturer’s standard 

Foamed plastics 

- 

With self-igniting light and self-activating smoke signal 

4.3 ㎏2.5 ㎏    With self-igniting light 2.5 ㎏    With buoyant lifeline (50 m) 2.5 ㎏With life jacket light With 4-320 m lines and 4-projectiles (Effective range of 230 m ) As per rule 

- 

Manufacturer’s standard 

As per rule 

Material of abovementioned equipments shall be to the manufacturer’s standard. 

IMABARI SHIPBUILDING CO., LTD

H3 - 10 

3.4.2    Lifeboat

The free fall type lifeboat shall be provided. 

The boat shall be provided with sea water-cooled diesel engine of cell motor starting type. 

Equipments shall be provided as per rule requirement. 

3.4.3    Rescue boat

The open type rescue boat shall be provided. 

The boat shall be provided with sea water-cooled gasoline engine of hand starting type. 

Equipments shall be provided as per rule requirement. 

3.4.4    Life boat davit and boat winch

One (1) set of free fall type davit and winch shall be provided together with necessary blocks, tackles, and releasing gear for falling and hoisting or lowering lifeboat. 

Boat shall be hoisted at two (2) persons loaded on lifeboat. 

3.4.5    Davit for rescue boat and liferaft for davit launching

One (1) davit shall be provided to A deck S-side. 

IMABARI SHIPBUILDING CO., LTD

H3 - 11 

3.4.6    Inflatable liferaft

One (1) inflatable for drop launching (P-side) and one (1) inflatable for davit launching liferafts (S-side), having capacity of twenty-five (25) persons shall be provided on A deck in racks. 

One (1) inflatable liferaft having capacity of six (6) persons shall be provided on upper deck. 

Equipments for liferaft shall be provided as per rule requirement. 

3.4.7    Lifebuoy

Twelve (12) lifebuoys shall be equipped suitable position. 

Quick releasing device shall be provided only for lifebuoys fitted on bridge wing. 

3.4.8    Life jacket

Life jacket shall be stowed on wardrobe in each cabin, and added two (2) in wheelhouse, six (6) in boatswain store and two (2) in engine control room. 

3.4.9    Immersion suits

Immersion suits shall be provided as per rule requirement. 

3.4.10    Emergency escape breathing device

Emergency escape breathing devices (EEBD) shall be stowed in accommodation space and engine room as par rule requirement. 

IMABARI SHIPBUILDING CO., LTD

H3 - 12 

3.5    AWNING AND CANVAS WORK

Awning for panama shelter shall be provided. 

Vinyl canvas cover shall be supplied for the following weather exposed fittings : 

  
  
  
  
  
  
  

Magnetic compass Gyro repeater compass Projector in weather part   Speaker in weather part Boat winch drum Accommodation ladder winch Pilot assistant ladder winch Rigging screw Provision crane winch drum Chain pipe Controller for deck machinery Embarkation light cover for lifeboat Jacob’s ladder for liferaft Jacob’s ladder for pilot 

IMABARI SHIPBUILDING CO., LTD

H3 - 13 

3.6    LADDER

Accommodation ladder, ladder winch, weathered deck ladder, etc. shall be provided as follows : 

3.6.1    Accommodation ladder

Number of set 

Material 

Type Width 

Length 

Two (2) sets Aluminum alloy Vertical stowing type with curved steps 600 ㎜Sufficient length to reach within about 0.6 m   of arrival ballasted water line at an angle of about 55 degrees to the horizontal Static load of 75 ㎏ on every two (2) steps at horizontal level condition 

Designed load Stowing position  On upper deck accommodation house both sides 

Handling 

Fitting 

3.6.2    Ladder winch

Refer to“3.6.2 Ladder winch”Upper rotating platform and lower vertical tilting platform,   Removable type stanchion of galvanized steel pipe, Handrail of vinylon rope 

Accommodation ladder shall be lowered, hoisted and stowed by means of fixed one (1) mechanical ladder winch driven by electric motor. 

Material of ladder winch shall be to the manufacturer’s standard. 

3.6.3    Wharf ladder

Wharf ladder shall not be supplied. 

IMABARI SHIPBUILDING CO., LTD

H3 - 14 

3.6.4    Pilot ladder

Pilot access port shall be provided on upper deck both sides. 

Two (2) sets of pilot assistant ladder shall be provided, and one (1) set of pilot jacob’s ladder shall be supplied. 

Particular of pilot assistant ladder shall be as follows. 

Material  Aluminum alloy Type Length 

Curved steps, vertical stowing type Sufficient length to reach within about 1 m of arrival ballasted water line at an angle of about 55 degrees to the horizontal 600 ㎜Removable stanchion of galvanized steel pipe, handrail of vinylon rope 

Width Fitting 

Pilot assistant ladder shall be lowered, hoisted and stowed by means of one (1) mechanical ladder winch driven by electric motor. 

Eye plate for jacob’s ladder lashing, 0.1 ton davit for jacob’s ladder hoisting and necessary fittings shall be provided on upper deck. 

0.1 ton davit shall be of manual operating type, and the davit shall be fitted rope and sheave. 

Sunken type eye plate shall be provided on side shell both sides. 

3.6.5    Vertical ladder

Vertical ladders shall be provided as follows ; 

Location 

Width 

Mast, post, etc, 

300 ㎜

Side stringer 65  ㎜ ×  9  ㎜steel flat bar 

Step 

19  ㎜ round bar 1 - rung 

Rungs shall penetrate through side stringer. 

Adequate back bar shall be provided. 

Permanent Means of Access in accordance with the requirements of Classification Society shall be provided. 

IMABARI SHIPBUILDING CO., LTD

H3 - 15 

3.6.6    Inclined ladder

Inclined ladder in weather part shall be provided as follows : 

Location 

Width 

Side stringer 

Step 

Weathered deck 

700  ㎜

180 ㎜×9.5 ㎜steel bulb plate 

6 ㎜ thickness steel checkered plate 

Hand rail 

25A SGP ( GALV ) 

Inclined ladder shall be of welded construction and step shall not pass through side stringer. 

Inclined ladder shall be inclined at the angle of below 50 degrees to the horizontal. 

3.6.7    Other ladder

Draught checking ladder shall not be provided. 

Two (2) jacob’s ladders for liferaft shall be provided on A deck, and one (1) jacob’s ladder for forward liferaft shall be provided. 

One (1) jacob’s ladder for chain locker shall be provided. 

As for interior stairways, refer to SUBSECTION 5.7 STAIRWAY IN ACCOMMODATION. 

As for hold ladder, refer to Subsection 2.4.6 ladder and step. 

IMABARI SHIPBUILDING CO., LTD

H3 - 16 

3.7    HANDRAIL AND LIFELINE

3.7.1    Handrail and stanchion

Handrail shall be fitted as follows except specified otherwise. 

Location  Height 

Top rail *  Mid rail 

Stanchion 

Stay 

All deck 

1,000 ㎜  25A SGP 

2  65 ㎜ ×  12 ㎜

Steel flat bar 

50 ㎜ ×  9 ㎜Steel flat bar 

19  ㎜Steel round bar 

      * ----- Galvanized steel pipe 

Handrail stanchion shall be fitted about 1,500  ㎜ apart. 

Handrail stay shall be fitted to every three (3) stanchions. 

Storm rail of 25A steel pipe ( SGP ) shall be fitted where necessary weather part. 

3.7.2    Lifeline

Detachable type lifeline and stanchion shall be provided between accommodation house front and upper deck forward as required by the rules. 

IMABARI SHIPBUILDING CO., LTD

H3 - 17 

3.8    NAME PLATE AND IDENTIFICATION

Name plates, marks, etc. shall be fitted as follows : 

Item Ship’s name Port of registry Funnel mark Draught mark 

Pilot mark 

Location 

Stern shell and both sides   of bow Stern shell Funnel both sides Both sides of bow, midship and stern Both sides of midship 

Both sides shell of pilot access point Both sides on deck of pilot access point 

Freeboard mark Bulbous bow mark  Both sides of bow 

Suitable location 

Notice plate,   Caution plate, etc. Name plate to identify quarters and space for tonnage Ship’s call letter Radio instruments room Ship’s name board  Both sides of compass   

bridge deck 

Hold depth mark 

Fore or aft in each hold 

Tug pushing mark  Fr. 34 and Fr. 194 Bottom plug CC mark 

both sides shell Bottom shell Hatch coaming both sides Stern shell and in engine room Mooring fitting On No.3 hatch cover 

IMO number 

S.W.L. mark Helicopter mark (Landing type) 

Remarks 

Tuck bead and painted 

Steel plate welded and painted   SUS plate welded and painted 

Tuck bead and painted 

Welded bead and painted 

Painted wooden plate 

Engraved plastics 

Painted wooden plate Steel plate welded ( 6 ㎜ ×  32  ㎜  F.B ) 2m apart and painted Corner bead and painted Welded bead Steel plate welded Tuck bead (stern shell), punching (in engine room) and painted Welded bead and painted Tuck bead and painted 

IMABARI SHIPBUILDING CO., LTD

H3 - 18e 

Draught marks shall be of Arabic numerals of 10 cm projected height, where bottom of each figure indicate vertical height in meter and/or centimeter above bottom of keel. 

Mark for IMSBC code shall be provided. 

Name plate ( Brass ) shall be fitted on air pipe heads, sounding caps and valves in English. 

Handle of valves shall be painted with same color of piping. 

For machineries, name plate and instruction plate shall be written in English in general. 

3.9    MISCELLANEOUS

(a) Flag staff of steel pipe ( SGP ) with truck and halyard shall be fitted at the stern. 

Flag staff shall be of collapsible type. Flag halyard shall be of cotton rope. 

(b) Rain shade shall be fitted over the weather doors of wheelhouse sides. 

(c) Detachable Suez search light davit (0.1t), rope and necessary blocks shall be supplied. 

And fitting socket shall be fitted in rope hatch on upper deck forward. 

(d) Panama shelter shall be provided to navigation bridge wing both sides. 

(e) The following documents shall be supplied by Builder. 

Cargo securing manual Emergency Towing Manual Fire Safety operational booklet with Maintenance Plan and Training Manual 
