2.2  CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIAL .

The materials and dimensions for diesel engine and its equipment shall be in accordance 
with Japanese Industrial Standard ( JIS ) and Maker’s standard.

2.2.1  Bedplate and main bearing.

The bedplate consists of high, welded, longitudinal girders and welded cross girders with 
bearing supports. 
For fitting to the engine seating, long, elastic holding down bolts tightened by hydraulic tools 
are to be used.

The oil pan, which is integrated in the bedplate, collects the return oil from the forced 
lubricating and cooling oil system.

The main bearings consist of thin walled steel shells lined with bearing metal. The bottom 
shell can, by means of special tools and hydraulic tools for lifting the crankshaft, be rotated 
out and in. The shells are kept in position by a bearing cap and are fixed by long elastic 
studs, with nuts tightened by hydraulic tools.

2.2.2  Frame box.

The frame box is of welded design. On the exhaust side, it is provided with a relief valve for 
each cylinder while, on the maneuvering side, it is provided with a large hinged door for each 
cylinder. 
The crosshead guides are welded to the frame box. 
For each cylinder, a slotted pipe for collecting part of the cooling oil outlet from the piston is 
bolted into the frame box. 
The frame box, bedplate and cylinder frame are tightened by twin stay bolts. The stay bolts are 
tightened hydraulically with use of jacks.

2.2.3  Cylinder frame, cylinder liner and stuffing box.

The cylinder frame unit is of cast iron. Together with the cylinder liner, they form the 
scavenge air space. On the maneuvering side of the engine, the cylinder frame units are 
provided with covers for cleaning the scavenge air space and for inspection of the scavenge 
ports and piston rings. 
The base plate for HCU and the gallery brackets are bolted onto the cylinder frame unit. 
Furthermore, the outer part of the telescopic pipe is fitted for the supply of piston cooling oil.

A piston rod stuffing box for each cylinder unit is fitted at the bottom of the cylinder frame. 
The stuffing box is provided with sealing rings for scavenge air, and with oil scraper rings to 
prevent oil from entering the scavenge air space.

The cylinder liner is made of boron cast iron alloy. The upper part of the liner is bore-cooled 
and, just below a cooling jacket is surrounded. The cylinder liner has scavenge ports and 
drilled holes for cylinder lubrication.

2.2.4  Cylinder cover.

The cylinder cover is of cast or forged steel (depending on production facility), made in one 
piece, and has bores for cooling water. It has a central bore for the exhaust valve and bores for 
fuel valves, safety valve, starting valve and indicator valve. 
The cylinder cover is tightened to the cylinder frame with studs and nuts by hydraulic jacks.

2.2.5  Crankshaft.

The crankshaft is of the semi-built type, made of forged steel throws with cold rolled fillets. 
The crankshaft is built integral with the thrust shaft and is provided with the flange for fitting 
the gear wheel for the chain driven step-up gear to the Hydraulic Power Supply, and the flange 
for the turning wheel and for coupling to the intermediate shaft. At the fore end, the crankshaft 
can be provided, if needed, with a flange for a moment compensator chain wheel and/or 
counterweights and/or a tuning wheel with additional price.

2.2.6  Axial vibration damper.

The engine is fitted with an axial vibration damper, which is mounted on the fore end of the 
crankshaft. 
The damper consists of a piston and a split-type housing located forward of the foremost main 
bearing. The piston is made as an integral collar on the main journal, and the housing is fixed 
to the main bearing support.

2.2.7  Thrust bearing.

The thrust bearing is of the B&W-Michell type, and consists of a thrust collar on the 
crankshaft, a bearing support, and segments with white metal. 
The propeller thrust is transferred through the thrust collar, the segments, and the bedplate to 
engine seating and end chocks. 
The thrust bearing is lubricated by the engine's main lubricating oil system.

2.2.8  Connecting rod.

The connecting rod is made of forged steel and provided with bearing caps for the crosshead 
and crankpin bearings. 
The crosshead and crankpin bearing caps are secured to the connecting rod by studs and nuts 
which are tightened by hydraulic jacks. 
The crosshead bearing consists of a set of thin-walled steel shells, lined with bearing metal. 
The crosshead bearing cap has an angular cut-out for the piston rod. 
The crankpin bearing is provided with thin-walled steel shells, lined with bearing metal. 
Lubricating oil is supplied through ducts in the crosshead and connecting rod.

2.2.9  Piston, piston rod and crosshead.

The piston consists of piston crown and piston skirt. The piston crown is made of heat-
resistant steel and has four ring grooves which are hard-chrome plated on both the upper and 
lower surfaces of the grooves. The piston skirt is of cast iron and provided with bronze bands.

The piston rod is of forged steel and is surface-hardened on the running surface for the stuffing 
box. The piston rod is connected to the crosshead with four studs. The piston rod has a central 
bore which, in conjunction with a cooling oil pipe, forms inlet and outlet for cooling oil.

The crosshead is of forged steel and is provided with guide shoes with white metal on the 
running surface. 
The telescopic pipe for oil inlet and the pipe for oil outlet are mounted on the top of the guide 
shoes.

2.2.10  Exhaust valve and valve gear.

The exhaust valve consists of a housing with gas channel and spindle guide. The housing is 
water cooled and made of cast iron. Between the cylinder cover and the housing, there is a 
bottom piece. 
The bottom piece is water cooled on its outer surface. 
The valve spindle is of the Ni based heat resistance alloy equivalent to the Nimonic type and is 
provided with small vane wheel on which the exhaust gas acts during operation, thus making 
spindle rotate slightly.

The hydraulic system consists of an actuator, a high-pressure pipe, and an oil cylinder for the 
exhaust valve spindle mounted on top of the housing. The hydraulic system opens the exhaust 
valve, while the closing force is provided by an air spring. The closing of the exhaust valve is 
damped by means of an oil cushion on top of the spindle. 
The exhaust Valve Activation is controlled by electronic valve (FIVA valve), which is 
electronically controlled by the Cylinder Control Units of Engine Control System.

 2.2.11  Fuel valve, starting valve (SAV), safety valve and indicator valve.

Each cylinder cover is equipped with two fuel valves, one starting valve, one safety valve, and 
one indicator valve. The opening of the fuel valve is controlled by the fuel oil high pressure 
created by the fuel oil pressure booster, and the valve is closed by a spring. 
The fuel valves are equipped with a slide and circulating bore, to ensure an adequate flow of 
heated oil through the fuel pump housing and fuel valves at all loads including stopped engine. 
By means of the “built-in” circulation of preheated fuel oil, the fuel pumps and fuel valves can 
be maintained at service temperature, also while the engine is stopped. Consequently, it is not 
necessary to change to diesel oil when entering harbour, provided that the circulating pump is 
kept running and preheating of the circulated fuel oil is maintained.

The SAV is opened by control air and is closed by a spring. The SAVs timing is electronically 
controlled by the Cylinder Control Units of Engine Control System, so that they supply the 
engine cylinders with starting air in the correct firing order. 
Slow turning before starting is a program incorporated into the Engine Control System.

The safety valve is spring-loaded.

The engine is fitted with an indicator valve to which the PMI pressure transducer can be 
connected.

2.2.12  Fuel pump and fuel oil high pressure pipe.

The engine is provided with one hydraulically activated fuel oil pressure booster for each 
cylinder. The fuel oil pressure booster consists of a pump housing, a hydraulic piston and 
plunger. In order to prevent fuel oil from being mixed with the servo oil, the fuel oil pressure 
booster is provided with a sealing device. 
The Fuel oil Injection is controlled by electronic valve (FIVA valve), which is electronically 
controlled by the Cylinder Control Units of Engine Control System.

The fuel oil high-pressure pipes are equipped with protective hoses and are neither heated nor 
insulated.

2.2.13  Hydraulic cylinder unit (HCU).

The HCU, one per cylinder, consists of a support console on which a distributor block is 
mounted. 
The distributor block is fitted with a number of accumulators to ensure that the necessary 
hydraulic oil peak flow is available for the electronic fuel injection and the electronic exhaust 
valve activation systems. 
The distributor block serves as a mechanical support for the hydraulically activated fuel oil 
pressure booster, the hydraulically activated exhaust valve actuator, and Alpha lubricator.

2.2.14  Chain drive and step-up gear.

The chain drive is integrated with the thrust bearing in the aft end of the engine. 
The hydraulic oil pumps of Hydraulic Power Supply are driven from the crankshaft via a chain 
driven step-up gear. The step-up gear is lubricated from the main lubricating oil system. The 
chain drive is provided with chain tightener.

2.2.15  Hydraulic power supply unit (HCU).

The purpose of the HPS unit is to deliver the necessary high pressure hydraulic oil flow to the 
HCU on the engine at the required pressure (approx. 30.0 MPa) during start-up as well as in 
normal service. 
As hydraulic medium, normal lubricating oil is used, and it is taken from the main lubricating 
oil system of the engine. 
The HPS unit consists of:.

•  A chain driven step-up gear 
•  Three or four engine driven pumps 
•  Two electrically driven pumps 
•  An automatic filter with a redundancy filter 
•  A safety and accumulator unit.

The multiple pump configurations with standby pumps ensure redundancy with regard to the 
hydraulic power supply. The control of the engine driven pumps and electrical pumps are 
divided between the Auxiliary Control Units.

2.2.16  Reversing.

Reversing of the engine is performed electronically, by changing the timing of the Fuel 
Injection, the exhaust Valve Activation (FIVA) and the Starting Air Valves (SAV).

2.2.17  Engine maneuvering system.

The electric-pneumatic maneuvering system has been greatly simplified, as the Engine Control 
System (ECS) has taken over most of its previous functions.

2.2.18  Main operating panel (MOP).

In the engine control room, the MOPs with a touch screen are located from where the operator 
can carry out engine commands, adjust the engine parameters, select the running modes, and 
observe the status of the control system.

2.2.19  Local Operating panel (LOP).

In normal operating the engine is controlled from engine control room. 
Alternatively, the LOP can be activated. This redundant control is to be considered as a 
substitute for the previous engine side control console mounted directly onto the MC engine. 
The LOP is place on the engine. 
From the LOP, the basic functions are available, such as starting, engine speed control, 
stopping, reversing, and the most important engine data are displayed.

2.2.20  Governor system.

The governor functions equivalents to the conventional governor system are included in the 
engine Control System.

2.2.21  Starting air system.

The starting air system comprises a main starting valve, a non-return valve, a bursting disc for 
the branch pipe to each cylinder, electronically controlled SAVs on each cylinder. The main 
starting valve is connected with the Engine Control System, which controls the start of the 
engine.

2.2.22  Scavenging air system.

The air intake to the turbocharger takes place direct from the engine room through the intake 
silencer of the turbocharger. From the turbocharger, the air is led via the charging air pipe, air 
cooler and scavenging air receiver to the scavenging ports of the cylinder liners. The charging 
air pipe between turbocharger and air cooler is provided with a compensator and is heat 
insulated on the outside.

2.2.23  Exhaust turbocharger and air cooler.

The engine is fitted with turbocharger(s) arranged on the rear side of the engine. 
The turbine side is provided with cleaning device.

The engine is fitted with air cooler(s) mono-block type (one per turbocharger) so arranged for 
easy cleaning with chemicals at the engine standstill. The air cooler consists of tube plates of 
rolled brass, cooling tubes with cuprous fins and cast iron covers coated with resin. 
After the air cooler, a water mist catcher is mounted.

2.2.24  Auxiliary blower.

The engine is provided with two electrically-driven auxiliary blowers. The suction sides of the 
blowers is connected to the scavenge air space after the air cooler. 
Between the air cooler and the scavenge air receiver, flap valves are fitted with automatically 
close when the auxiliary blowers supply the air. 
Both auxiliary blowers will start operating before the engine is started and will ensure 
sufficient scavenge air pressure to obtain a safe start. 
During operation of the engine, both auxiliary blowers will start automatically each time the 
engine load is reduced to about 30–40%, and they will continue operating until the load again 
exceeds approximately 40–50%.

In cases where one of the auxiliary blowers is out of service, the other auxiliary blower will 
automatically compensate without any manual readjustment of the valves, thus avoiding any 
engine load reduction. This is achieved by the automatically working non-return valves in the 
suction pipe of the blowers. 
The auxiliary blowers are controlled by Auxiliary Control Unit.

2.2.25  Exhaust gas system.

From the exhaust valves, the gas is led to the exhaust gas receiver where the fluctuating 
pressure from the individual cylinders is equalized, and the total volume of gas led further on 
to the turbochargers at a constant pressure. After the turbocharger, the gas is led to the exhaust 
pipe system. 
Compensators are fitted between the exhaust valves and the receiver, and between the receiver 
and the turbocharger. 
The exhaust gas receiver and exhaust pipes are provided with insulation, covered by 
galvanized steel plating.

2.2.26  Turning wheel and turning gear.

The turning wheel has cylindrical teeth and is fitted to the thrust shaft. The turning wheel is 
driven by a pinion on the terminal shaft of the turning gear, which is mounted on the bedplate. 
The turning gear is driven by an electric motor with built-in gear and brake. The turning gear 
is equipped with a blocking device that prevents the main engine from starting when the 
turning gear is engaged. Engagement and disengagement of the turning gear is effected 
manually by an axial movement of the pinion.

2.2.27  Gallery arrangement.

The engine is provided with gallery brackets, stanchions, railing and platforms (exclusive of 
ladders). The brackets are placed at such a height that the best possible overhauling and 
inspection conditions are achieved. Some main pipes of the engine are suspended from the 
gallery brackets.

2.2.28  Cylinder lubricators (Alpha lubricator system ALS).

The cylinder lubricator units, one per engine cylinders, are mounted. The oil is led to the 
lubricator unit, through a pipe system from an elevated tank (Shipbuilder’s supply). 
The ALS is electronically controlled by the Cylinder Control Units of Engine Control System.

2.2.29  Piping arrangements.

The lubricating oil, cylinder cooling fresh water and air coolers are cooled by means of sea 
water. The pipes for the lubricating oil system and for the fresh water on the engine are of steel, 
the sea water pipes are of galvanized steel.

a)  Forced lubrication and oil cooling:.

The main forced lubrication is led to each main bearing through branches from the main 
lubrication pipe located along the engine. Cooling oil is led to the telescopic pipe 
through branches from the cooling oil main pipe located along the cooling jackets on the 
exhaust side of the engine, through which the oil is led to the crossheads. From there, 
some of the oil is branched off for lubrication of the crosshead shoes and crosshead 
bearings and is led through the bored connecting rod to the crank bearing.  
Some of the oil is led through a pipe in the bore of the piston rod for cooling of the 
piston. The oil returns from here through the piston rod and let out through a duct in the 
crosshead.

b)  Cooling water system:.

Cylinders and exhaust valves are fresh water cooled. 
The fresh water is led from the main piping along the engine through branches to the 
each cylinder liner. The fresh water is led from the cylinder liner up through the cylinder 
cover and exhaust valve housing and from there to a manifold through which it is carried 
back to the fresh water cooler.