2.2  CONSTRUCTION AND MATERIAL .

The materials and dimensions for diesel engine and its equipment shall be in accordance 
with Japanese Industrial Standard ( JIS ) and Maker’s standard.

2.2.1  Bedplate and main bearing.

The bedplate consists of high, welded, longitudinal girders and welded cross girders with 
bearing supports. 
For fitting to the engine seating, long, elastic holding down bolts tightened by hydraulic tools 
are to be used. 
The oil pan, which is integrated in the bedplate, collects the return oil from the forced 
lubricating and cooling oil system.

The main bearings consist of Tin-aluminium shells. The bottom shell can, by means of 
special tools and hydraulic tools for lifting the crankshaft, be rotated out and in. The shells 
are kept in position by a bearing cap and are fixed by long elastic studs, with nuts tightened 
by hydraulic tools.

2.2.2  Frame box.

The frame box is of welded design. On the exhaust side, it is provided with a relief valve for 
each cylinder while, on the camshaft side, it is provided with a large door for each cylinder. 
The crosshead guides are welded to the frame box. 
For each cylinder, a slotted pipe for collecting part of the cooling oil outlet from the piston 
is bolted into the frame box. 
The frame box, bedplate and cylinder frame are tightened by twin stay bolts. The stay bolts 
are tightened hydraulically with use of jacks.

2.2.3  Cylinder frame, cylinder liner and stuffing box.

The cylinder frame unit is of welded type or cast iron (depending on production facility) 
with integrated camshaft frame. Together with the cylinder liner, they form the scavenge air 
space. At the chain drive, the upper part of the chain wheel frame is fitted. On the camshaft 
side of the engine, the cylinder frame units are provided with covers for cleaning the 
scavenge air space and for inspection of the scavenge ports and piston rings. 
The gallery brackets are bolted onto the cylinder frame. Furthermore, the outer part of the 
telescopic pipe is fitted for the supply of piston cooling oil.

A piston rod stuffing box for each cylinder unit is fitted at the bottom of the cylinder frame. 
The stuffing box is provided with sealing rings for scavenge air, and with oil scraper rings to 
prevent oil from entering the scavenge air space.

The cylinder liner is made of boron cast iron alloy. The upper part of the liner is surrounded 
by a cooling jacket. The cylinder liner has scavenge ports and drilled holes for cylinder 
lubrication.

2.2.4  Cylinder cover.

The cylinder cover is of cast or forged steel (depending on production facility), made in one 
piece, and has bores for cooling water. It has a central bore for the exhaust valve and bores 
for fuel valves, safety valve, starting valve and indicator valve. 
The cylinder cover is tightened to the cylinder frame with studs and nuts by hydraulic jacks.

2.2.5  Crankshaft.

The crankshaft is of the semi-built type, made of forged steel throws. 
The crankshaft is built integral with the thrust shaft and is, on the aft end, provided with a 
flange for the turning wheel and for coupling to the intermediate shaft. At the fore end, the 
crankshaft can be provided, if needed, with a flange for a counterweights and/or a tuning 
wheel with additional price.

2.2.6  Axial vibration damper.

The engine is fitted with an axial vibration damper, which is mounted on the fore end of the 
crankshaft. 
The damper consists of a piston and a split-type housing located forward of the foremost 
main bearing. The piston is made as an integral collar on the main journal, and the housing 
is fixed to the main bearing support.

2.2.7  Thrust bearing.

The thrust bearing is of the B&W-Michell type, and consists of a thrust collar on the 
crankshaft, a bearing support, and segments with white metal. 
The propeller thrust is transferred through the thrust collar, the segments, and the bedplate 
to engine seating and end chocks. 
The thrust bearing is lubricated by the engine's main lubricating oil system.

2.2.8  Connecting rod.

The connecting rod is made of cast or forged steel (depending on production facility) and 
provided with bearing caps for the crosshead and crankpin bearings. 
The crosshead and crankpin bearing caps are secured to the connecting rod by studs and nuts 
which are tightened by hydraulic jacks. 
The crosshead bearing consists of a set of Tin-aluminium shells. The crosshead bearing cap 
has an angular cut-out for the piston rod. 
The crankpin bearing consists of Tin-aluminium shells. 
Lubricating oil is supplied through ducts in the crosshead and connecting rod.

2.2.9  Piston, piston rod and crosshead.

The piston consists of piston crown and piston skirt. The piston crown is made of heat-
resistant steel and has four ring grooves which are hard-chrome plated on both the upper and 
lower surfaces of the grooves. The piston skirt is of cast iron and provided with bronze 
bands.

The piston rod is of forged steel and is surface-hardened on the running surface for the 
stuffing box. The piston rod is connected to the crosshead with four screws. The piston rod 
has a central bore which, in conjunction with a cooling oil pipe, forms inlet and outlet for 
cooling oil.

The crosshead is of forged steel and is provided with guide shoes with white metal on the 
running surface. 
The telescopic pipe for oil inlet and the pipe for oil outlet are mounted on the top of the 
guide shoes.

2.2.10  Exhaust valve and valve gear.

The exhaust valve consists of a housing with gas channel and spindle guide. The housing is 
water cooled and made of cast iron. Between the cylinder cover and the housing, there is a 
bottom piece. 
The bottom piece is water cooled on its outer surface. 
The valve spindle is of heat resistant steel with “hard metal” welded onto the seat, and is 
provided with small vane wheel on which the exhaust gas acts during operation, thus 
making spindle rotate slightly.

The hydraulic system consists of an actuator, activated by a cam on the camshaft, a high-
pressure pipe, and an oil cylinder for the exhaust valve spindle, mounted on top of the 
housing. The hydraulic system opens the exhaust valve, while the closing force is provided 
by an air spring. The closing of the exhaust valve is damped by means of an oil cushion on 
top of the spindle. 
The exhaust valve close timing is controlled by not only the cam but also the electronic 
valve (ELFI-V valve), which is electronically controlled by the Cylinder Control Units of 
Engine Control System.

 2.2.11  Fuel valve, starting air valve, safety valve and indicator valve.

Each cylinder cover is equipped with two fuel valves, one starting valve, one safety valve, 
and one indicator valve. The opening of the fuel valve is controlled by the fuel oil high 
pressure created by the fuel pumps, and the valve is closed by a spring. 
The fuel valves are equipped with a slide and circulating bore, to ensure an adequate flow of 
heated oil through the fuel pump housing and fuel valves at all loads including stopped 
engine. By means of the “built-in” circulation of preheated fuel oil, the fuel pumps and fuel 
valves can be maintained at service temperature, also while the engine is stopped. 
Consequently, it is not necessary to change to diesel oil when entering harbour, provided 
that the circulating pump is kept running and preheating of the circulated fuel oil is 
maintained.

The starting valve is opened by control air from the starting air distributor and closed by a 
spring.

The safety valve is spring-loaded.

The engine is fitted with an indicator valve to which the PMI pressure transducer can be 
connected.

2.2.12  Fuel oil pressure booster and fuel oil high pressure pipe.

The engine is provided with one hydraulically activated fuel oil pressure booster for each 
cylinder. The fuel oil pressure booster consists of a pump housing, a hydraulic piston and 
plunger. In order to prevent fuel oil from being mixed with the servo oil, the fuel oil pressure 
booster is provided with a sealing device. 
The fuel oil injection is controlled by electronic valve (ELFI-V valve), which is electronically 
controlled by the Cylinder Control Units of Engine Control System.

The fuel oil high-pressure pipes are equipped with protective hoses and are neither heated nor 
insulated.

2.2.13  Hydraulic Cylinder Unit (HCU).

The HCU consists of a base plate on which a distributor block is mounted. 
The distributor block is fitted with one accumulator to ensure that the necessary 
hydraulic oil peak flow is available for the electronic fuel injection. 
The distributor block serves as a mechanical support for the hydraulically activated 
fuel oil pressure booster and Alpha lubricator.

There is one HCU per two cylinders. The HCU is equipped with two fuel oil pressure 
boosters, two ELFI-V valves and two Alpha Lubricators. Thereby, one HCU is operating 
two cylinders.

2.2.14  Hydraulic Power Supply (HPS).

The HPS is installed in the front end of the engine. The HPS is electrically driven and 
consists of two electric motors each driving a hydraulic pump.

The pressure for the hydraulic oil is approx. 30.0 MPa. Each of the pumps has a capacity 
corresponding to min. 55% of the engine power. In case of malfunction of one of the pumps, 
it is still possible to operate the engine with 55% engine power corresponding to 85% speed.

2.2.15  Camshaft and cams.

The camshaft is made in one or two pieces depending on the number of cylinders, with 
exhaust cams shrunk onto the shaft. The exhaust cams are of a hardened roller face. They 
can be adjusted hydraulically.

2.2.16  Chain drive.

The chain drive is integrated with the thrust bearing in the aft end of the engine. The 
camshaft is driven from the crankshaft by chain drive. The chain drive is provided with 
chain tightener. The long free lengths of chain are supported by guidebars. 
The starting air distributor is driven by the camshaft.

2.2.17  Reversing.

Reversing of the engine is performed electronically and pneumatically, by changing the 
timing of the Fuel Injection and the starting air valves. 
The exhaust gear is not reversible.

2.2.18  Engine manoeuvring system.

The engine is provided with an electric-pneumatic manoeuvring system. The system 
transmits orders from the manoeuvring console to the engine. 
The regulating system makes it possible to start, stop and reverse the engine and to control 
the engine. The speed control dial on the manoeuvring console gives a speed-setting signal 
to the Engine Control System.

2.2.19  Main Operating Panel (MOP).

In the engine control room a MOP is located, which is a Personal Computer (PC) with a 
touch screen as well as a trackball from where the operator can carry out engine commands, 
adjust the engine parameters, select the running modes, and observe the status of the control 
system.

2.2.20  Engine Side Console (ESC).

In normal operating the engine is controlled from engine control room. 
Alternatively, the ESC can be activated. This redundant control is to be considered as a 
substitute for the previous engine side control console mounted directly onto the MC engine. 
The ESC is place on the engine. 
From the ESC, the basic functions are available, such as starting, engine speed control, 
stopping, reversing, and the most important engine data are displayed.

2.2.21  Governor system.

The governor functions equivalents to the conventional governor system are included in the 
Engine Control System.

2.2.22  Starting air system.

The starting air system comprises a main starting valve, a non-return valve, a bursting disc 
for the branch pipe to each cylinder, a starting air distributor, and starting valves on each 
cylinder. The main starting valve is connected with the main manoeuvring system, which 
controls the start of the engine. 
The starting air distributor regulates the supply of control air to the starting valves so that 
they supply the engine cylinders with starting air in the correct firing order.

2.2.23  Scavenging air system.

The air intake to the turbocharger takes place direct from the engine room through the intake 
silencer of the turbocharger. From the turbocharger, the air is led via the charging air pipe, 
air cooler and scavenging air receiver to the scavenging ports of the cylinder liners. The 
charging air pipe between turbocharger and air cooler is provided with a compensator and is 
heat insulated on the outside.

2.2.24  Exhaust turbocharger and air cooler.

The engine is fitted with turbocharger arranged on the side of the engine. 
The turbine side is provided with cleaning device.

The engine is fitted with air cooler mono-block type so arranged for easy cleaning with 
chemicals at the engine standstill. The air cooler consists of tube plates of rolled brass, 
cooling tubes with cuprous fins and cast iron covers coated with resin. 
After the air cooler, a water mist catcher is mounted.

2.2.25  Auxiliary blower.

The engine is provided with two electrically-driven auxiliary blowers. The suction sides of the 
blowers is connected to the scavenge air space after the air cooler. 
Between the air cooler and the scavenge air receiver, flap valves are fitted with automatically 
close when the auxiliary blowers supply the air. 
Both auxiliary blowers will start operating before the engine is started and will ensure 
sufficient scavenge air pressure to obtain a safe start. 
During operation of the engine, both auxiliary blowers will start automatically each time the 
engine load is reduced to about 30–40%, and they will continue operating until the load again 
exceeds approximately 40–50%. 
In cases where one of the auxiliary blowers is out of service, the other auxiliary blower will 
automatically compensate without any manual readjustment of the valves, thus avoiding any 
engine load reduction. This is achieved by the automatically working non-return valves in the 
suction pipe of the blowers.

2.2.26  Exhaust gas system.

From the exhaust valves, the gas is led to the exhaust gas receiver where the fluctuating 
pressure from the individual cylinders is equalised, and the total volume of gas led further 
on to the turbochargers at a constant pressure. After the turbocharger, the gas is led to the 
exhaust pipe system. 
Compensators are fitted between the exhaust valves and the receiver, and between the 
receiver and the turbocharger. 
The exhaust gas receiver and exhaust pipes are provided with insulation, covered by 
galvanised steel plating.

2.2.27  Turning wheel and turning gear.

The turning wheel has cylindrical teeth and is fitted to the thrust shaft. The turning wheel is 
driven by a pinion on the terminal shaft of the turning gear, which is mounted on the 
bedplate. 
The turning gear is driven by an electric motor with built-in gear and brake. The turning 
gear is equipped with a blocking device that prevents the main engine from starting when 
the turning gear is engaged. Engagement and disengagement of the turning gear is effected 
manually by an axial movement of the pinion.

2.2.28  Gallery arrangement.

The engine is provided with gallery brackets, stanchions, railing and platforms (exclusive of 
ladders). The brackets are placed at such a height that the best possible overhauling and 
inspection conditions are achieved. Some main pipes of the engine are suspended from the 
gallery brackets.

2.2.29  Cylinder lubricators  (Alpha Lubricator System; ALS).

The cylinder lubricator units, one per engine cylinders, are mounted. The oil is led to the 
lubricator unit, through a pipe system from an elevated tank (Shipbuilder’s supply). 
The ALS is electronically controlled by the Cylinder Control Units of Engine Control System.

The setting of Alpha lubricator system can be performed by MOP.

2.2.30  Piping arrangements.

The lubricating oil, cylinder cooling fresh water and air coolers are cooled by means of sea 
water. The pipes for the lubricating oil system and for the fresh water on the engine are of steel, 
the sea water pipes are of galvanized steel.

a) Forced lubrication and oil cooling:.

The main forced lubrication is led to each main bearing through branches from the main 
lubrication pipe located along the engine. Cooling oil is led to the telescopic pipe through 
branches from the cooling oil main pipe located along the cooling jackets on the exhaust 
side of the engine, through which the oil is led to the crossheads. From there, some of the oil 
is branched off for lubrication of the crosshead shoes and crosshead bearings and is led 
through the bored connecting rod to the crank bearing.  
Some of the oil is led through a pipe in the bore of the piston rod for cooling of the piston. 
The oil returns from here through the piston rod and let out through a duct in the crosshead. 
The camshaft bearing lubricating oil and the exhaust valve driving gear oil are supplied 
from cooling oil system.

b) Cooling water system: 
Cylinders and exhaust valves are fresh water cooled. 
The fresh water is led from the main piping along the engine through branches to the each 
cylinder liner. The fresh water is led from the cylinder liner up through the cylinder cover 
and exhaust valve housing and from there to a manifold through which it is carried back to 
the fresh water cooler.

2.3  FITTING AND ACCESSORY.

The following accessories shall be supplied together with main engine.

 1 － set of exhaust gas turbocharger  
 1 － set of air cooler 
 1 － set of flywheel 
 1 － set of turning gear 
 1 － set of thrust bearing 
 2 － sets of auxiliary blower 
 1 － set of main starting valve with non-return valve 
 1 － sets of ALPHA lubricator system 
 1 － set of grating for engine 
 1 － set of piping attached to the engine 
 1 － set of manoeuvring device 
 1 － set of pressure gauge 
 1 － set of thermometer  
 1 － set of manometer 
 1 － set of fuel oil 2nd filter 
 1 － set of oil mist detector 
 1 － set of hydraulic power supply unit (HPS) 
 1 － set of hydraulic cylinder unit (HCU) 
 2 － sets of main operating panel (MOP) 
 1 － set of local operating panel (LOP) 
 1 － set of cylinder control unit (CCU) 
 1 － set of water in oil sensor