12.4  LIFTING GEAR AND TOOL .

One (1) overhead traveling crane, having as electrically hoist shall be installed over the 
main engine for overhauling cylinder cover, cylinder liner and piston.

Hoisting and longitudinal travelling shall be electrically performed, and transverse 
travelling shall be performed by hands by means of link chain pulley and reduction gear.

Plane trolleys and I beams shall be provided for overhauling diesel generator engine and 
purifiers respectively.

Eye plate shall be suitably fitted for overhauling pumps, heat exchangers and strainers of 
heavy weight.

12.5  TANK IN ENGINE ROOM.

Tanks as listed in the Subsection 1.2 MACHINERY PARTICULAR shall be provided in 
the engine room.

All tanks shall be made of welded steel plate.

Regarding the insulation and painting of tanks, refer to SECTION 11 INSULATION 
AND PAINTING.

All tanks shall be fitted with necessary connections and fittings as following table.

Name of tank.

Fitting 
Emerg.
Shut-
off 
valve.

Self 
closing
valve.

Air 
vent.

Level 
gauge.

Heat. 
coil.

Heat. 
coil 
ratio 
(m2/m3).

Boiling
connec
-tion.

Remarks.

(Thermo.

-meter).

Heavy fuel oil settling tank O O O F O 0.3 o* O 
Heavy fuel oil service tank O O O F O 0.3 o* O.

L/S fuel oil service tank O O O F O 0.3 o* O 
Diesel oil service tank O O O F - - o*.

Sludge tank - O O S O 0.1 o*  
Fuel oil drain tank - - O S O 0.1 o*  
Fuel oil overflow tank - - O F O 0.03 o*.

M/E lub. oil sump tank - - O F&S - - -  
M/E lub. oil storage tank - - O F - - -  
M/E lub. oil settling tank O O O F O 0.2 o* O 
D/G lub. oil storage tank - - O F - - -  
D/G lub. oil settling tank O O O F O 0.2 o* O 
D/G lub. oil overflow tank - - O F - - -  
S/T lub. oil sump tank - - O F - - -  
S/T lub. oil seal pot - - O F - - -.

Cylinder oil storage tank O - O F - - -  
Cylinder oil alarm chamber - - O - - - -.

Stuffing box drain tank - - O S - - -  
Scavenging box drain tank - - O S O 0.1 o*.

Cool. F.W. expansion tank - - - G - - - Open 
Deaeration tank - - O - - - -  
Cascade tank (Inspect. tank) - - - SG - - - Open.

Fresh water pressure tank - - - G - - -  
Drinking water press. tank - - - G - - -.

Name of tank.

Fitting 
Emerg
Shut-
off 
valve.

Self 
closing
valve.

Air 
vent.

Level 
gauge.

Heat. 
Coil.

Heat. 
coil 
ratio 
(m2/m3).

Boiling
connec
-tion.

Remarks.

(Thermo.

-meter).

Waste oil tank O - O F O 0.5 o* O.

Bilge primary tank - - - - - - - Open
Bilge tank - - O S - - o*  
Bilge sludge tank - - O S O 0.01 o*  
Clean drain tank - - O S - - -.

Gray water collect tank - - O F&S - - -.

Note : Abbreviation 
 F : Float gauge  G : Glass gauge G* : Flat type glass gauge 
 SG : Sight glass S : Sounding pipe o* : Seat only 
 O : To be fitted.

12.6  FLOOR, LADDER AND GRATING.

The engine room floor and operation platform shall be of 4.5 mm checkered pattern steel 
plate, supported on suitable angle.

Removable sections shall be provided as required for proper access for handling and 
inspection of the equipment located under floor and manholes.

Engine room gratings shall be provided at the place where are required for proper access 
to the equipment.

The gratings shall have steel bars of Maker’s standard pattern and which shall be suitably 
spaced and properly fitted in flat steel bar counterframes.

Ladders shall be fitted as required for convenient access to various grating levels. 
Main ladders shall have foot grating and the vertical ladders shall have steps of round 
section steel bars.  The inclination of main ladders shall be about 55゜where applicable.  
The width of main ladders shall be 600 mm and that of sub-ladders shall be 500 mm.  
Vertical ladders shall be used only for unimportant, access to provisionally.

Handrails shall be fitted at gratings, ladders and floors where are necessary for the safety 
and convenience of operating personnel.  Handrails shall be of steel pipe carried in steel 
pipe stanchions and shall be fitted with portable sections where required or overhauling 
machinery.  Double handrails shall be fitted only at the main engine top and middle 
grating and above upper deck level in engine room.  M/E overhauling platform 
arrangement shall be provided as Maker’s standard.

12.7  VENTILATION FOR ENGINE ROOM.

Mechanical supply ventilating system shall be provided for the engine room.  The fresh 
air for each ventilating fan shall be taken from separate ventilating air inlets and shall be 
distributed to the engine room through ducts.

Total supply capacity of ventilating fans shall be determined based on the amount of air 
consumed by the main engine running at maximum output, taking the air consumption of 
diesel generator engine.

As to detail of ventilating fan, refer to Subsection 7.5 ENGINE ROOM VENTILATING 
FAN.

12.8  FIRE FIGHTING SYSTEM IN ENGINE ROOM.

The ship shall be provided with fire fighting system in accordance with the rule 
requirement.

There shall be provided two (2) fire pumps ( Bilge & ballast pump and Fire & G.S. 
pump ), fire valve and hose the suitable place in engine room.

Portable foam fire extinguisher and removal foam fire extinguisher etc. shall be provided 
in accordance with the rule requirement. 
Details of fire fighting system, refer to PARTⅡ HULL PART.

Fixed water-based local fire fighting system shall be provided in accordance with the rule 
requirement.

The emergency stop switch shall be provided outside of engine room.  Details of the  
emergency stop switch, refer to PARTⅣ ELECTRIC PART.

The emergency shut off valve device shall be provided outside engine room for fuel oil 
and lub. oil tanks which air described on Subsection 12.5 TANK IN ENGINE ROOM.

12.9  INCINERATOR.

There shall be installed one (1) set of waste oil incinerator for dispose of sludge and waste 
oil. 
The construction, materials and accessories shall be in accordance with Maker’s standard.