1.3  SHOP TEST .

As regards under said machinery installed in the engine room, the under said running test 
shall be executed at the Maker’s shop to demonstrate workmanship, proper working order 
and performance in accordance with the shop test projects.

In case electric current of 60 Hz shall not be available, auxiliaries driven by electric 
motors shall be tested by supplying available electric current and results on performance 
shall be converted into these for 60 Hz by proper calculation.

Necessary data shall be recorded during these tests and the results shall be submitted to 
the Owner.

For main engine.

 (1) Ahead running load test 
  25% load of maximum output (Data only) 
  50% load of maximum output 1/2 hour 
  70% load of maximum output (Data only) 
  75% load of maximum output 1/2 hour 
  Normal output 1/2 hour 
  Maximum output 1  hour.

 The fuel oil consumption test shall be executed at normal rating.

 (2) Governor test.

 (3) Minimum revolution test (Data only).

 (4) Starting test and astern confirmation test.

 (5) Emergency trip test.

 (6) Overhaul inspection.

During the shop test, the diesel oil shall be used in accordance with the Maker’s standard 
practice. 
The brand of lubricating oil and cylinder oil used during shop test shall be chosen in 
accordance with the Maker’s standard.

 M1 - 12.

For diesel generator engine.

 (1) Ahead running load test.

   25% load of maximum output (Data only) 
   50% load of maximum output (Data only) 
   75% load of maximum output (Data only) 
 Maximum output 1 hour 
   110% load of maximum output 1/3 hour.

 (2) Governor test.

 (3) Starting test ( Data only ).

 (4) Parallel running test.

 (5) Emergency trip test.

 (6) Fuel oil consumption measuring.

These shop tests shall be carried out after coupling the engine with generator at the engine 
Maker’s shop.  Above mentioned load means the generator load. 
During the above test, the diesel oil shall be used during the shop test in accordance with 
the Maker’s standard.

For pump and air compressor.

 (1) Performance test 
   Performance test shall be carried out for each set but in case two or more than two 
   sets of same kind and capacity are installed, performance test shall be carried out 
   for only one set.

 (2) Continuous running test 
   Continuous running test at full load for each set shall be carried out. 
   The said tests shall be executed according to the Maker’s usual practice by using 
   available facilities in the Maker’s shop.

For oil purifier.

The shop test shall be carried out according to the Maker’s standard and usual practice.

For fresh water generator.

The shop test shall not be carried out. 
The operating test shall be carried out onboard during sea trial.

M1 - 13e